In case of decalred queries there is a lot of abstraction happening behind the scene

To understand things in a better way , we will be using HQL queries to know what exactly is happening
behind the scenes with the queries and how are they executing.

HQL ---> Hibernate Query Language

Here we can make changes to the query depending upon our need
Instead of getting every detail about the product we can select only the fields that we need

For ex --> in the HQL query used in Product Repo i only need description and title from the product
where the price and description is given by me .


What are Projections and why are they needed??

Suppose we declare an HQL Query , where we want only some particular attributes and not the entire
Product . So when we will call that particular HQL query in that case , we will create projections with
Getter , Setters of that particular HQL query , so that it can be called during the execution.

HQL is database independent , maybe we want to move to PostGre from My Sql in that case we don't need
to worry about the HQL queries , Hibernate will automatically convert the required queries corresponding
to the DB we are using .

ORM'S biggest issue performance , no exact control over queries
Most ORM provide a way for you to specify the complete query

In case of native queries , we have to provide the data as it is in the table , and Hibernate
won't be able to give us auto suggestions


@Param annotation is used if we want to provide the parameters from our end .


Representing Cardinalities

When an object of one class has an attribute of another class


Foreign Key Constraints --->
In case we delete a category there are 3 options :-
* Either delete the product completely from db
* Either select the product category to Null
* Either don't allow category deletion

When a class has an attribute of another class , to fetch the details of that attribute it will
require us to do a join , this can make queries slow

2 possible scenarios
* We needed the attributes of another class(in the case there is no other alternative)
* We might not need those products , all the time [More common scenario]

--> There are many time scenarios when we don't really need the details of attributes of another class
In those scenarios joins is wasteful.

Product <----> Category (Join is compulsory)
but vice versa is not always needed


2 Ways to fetch attributes of child class :-
i> EAGER FETCH --> Fetch attributes along with fetching the main object
ii> Lazy Fetch --> Don't fetch the objects of attributes while fetching the main obj , fetch when they are need / if they are needed.


when we are calling a service suppose categoryRepository.findAllProductsById()
In this scenario , only the primitive and the eager annotated attributes will be called , in case we
want to get the lazy fetch , we will have to explicitly call them .

In Lazy Fetch --> It will lead to a seperate db call and not a join

A join is more efficient than a db call ,  but in case of lazy loading not all the attributes are
required always .

By default all attributes are eager fetched except collections , which are lazy fetched .

Wherever we are putting the cardinalities we can change the Fetch Type there , we can either make it Lazy or Eager .

Jpa Ignores Fetch Mode

N+1 Problem ---> Sometimes ORM takes M*N+1 iterations to get all the Products from DB rather than taking M+1 iterations


Check Orm queries if Optimal or not , otherwise go for Native queries

Fetch Modes were used earlier to solve N+1 issues.

Fetch Type will tell us when to execute query and Fetch Modes tell us how to execute query.


Schema Migration :-
*> We might want more control over data control , table creation etc
*> People should know the changes that happened in schema

Schema Migration / Versioning libraries ---> Flyway and Liquibase

When using the Flyway migration library , we have to import the flyway core dependency and also the flyway mysql(the db
that we are using) dependency into our pom.xml

Never edit an already exisiting schema , the previous versions should never be changed.
Always add a new file to make the changes

In Local we can create multiple migration files , but when we are pushing the code outside
it is advisable to create a final migration file and push it , in that case we can delete our
previous locally created migrations .

Suppose we want to enter some data in our My Sql , in that case we can use the Flyway
Empty Migration .


Subnet is an internet inside an internet
Nat --> Network Address Translator(allows to create Subnet)

ISP keeps reassigning I/P addresses to be able to accommodate many users with less money

Both static and public I/P are needed to host a website

If public/static i/p address is needed we need to pay ISP extra money



Why Not Monolith?
>> Application will have multiple services and everything will be written in one language
>> All the services will be running in all the servers
>> Size of application will increase it will make the application slower to run

Microservices --> Breaking one application into multiple smaller applications

Have smaller codebase easier for a developer to understand

OAuth --> Industry wise standard for authorisation